Now we're ready to set up the problem.
I have copied here a vector of
the data values and we've called it y.
So what we need is to calculate y
bar which is the sample mean of y.
We also need to run y so that
the values are saved in our R session.
And now we can run this line to
calculate y bar, the mean of y.
We also need n, which is the length of y.
We'll run that and
just to check it, it is 10.
And as part of our analysis let's just
look at a histogram of these data points.
So we'll do a histogram of y, where again,
we want the frequency to be false,
so that we're looking, instead of
counts we're looking at probabilities.
And we want the x axis
to be between the values of negative 1 and
3 just so that we have enough
view on both sides of the data.
Let's run this histogram.
Here's what the data look like.
Let's also add the individual data points.
We can do that with the points function.
Where we add the y vector.
And we want, on the y axis,
we want these to appear on 0 so
that they appear along the x axis.
So we're going to repeat 0 n times for
our y coordinant.
And we'll actually just run this.
So that adds the actual data points.
So we can see where they are.
We can also add y bar, the sample
mean to see where that's located.
Again, we'll use points,
and this time y bar and 0.
And to distinguish it
from the data points,
let's use pch-19 that
creates a field circle.
So when I run this,
it adds y bar, the sample mean.
So we can see where the sample
mean of our data are.
Let's add the plot of our
prior distribution for
the mean to see how it
compares with our data.
We can do with the curve
function where we're going to use
the density of a t distribution dt for
generic x variable, which we haven't
define is just the x axis in the plot.
And our t distribution
has degree of freedom 1.
By default that already has location 0 and
scale 1.
To distinguish it from the histogram,
let's give it a different line type,
lty=2.
That will cause it to be a dashed line.
And then of course, add=true so that it
adds this plot on top of the previous one.
Let's run this curve.
Here's our prior distribution for mu.
As you can see, there's a little bit
of a discrepancy between our prior for
mu, and what the data says mu should be.
The prior has most of its probability
mass in this region here, near 0.
However, the data suggest that
the mean is up here near 1.
We expect that the posterior
distribution from mu will
have a mean as a compromise
somewhere between 0 and 1.
We're now ready to run the sampler
that we've just coded up.
I've already entered the LG
function into the R session but
we still need to load
the Metropolis-Hastings function.
So I'm going to press Cmd+Return to
enter that function into the console.
And now we have the data.
We have y bar and we have n.
So let's move down here and
start sampling.
We'll collect our posterior samples and
a variable that we'll call post.
Referring to posterior.
It would be the result of calling
our Metropolis-Hastings function,
where we need to give
it these six arguments.
n, which we've defined, y bar which
is the sample mean of the data.
N_iter, which is the number of iterations.
We've decided we want to do
1,000 iterations of our sampler.
There's also a shorthand for
this which we can do, 1e3.
That's 10 to the 3rd power.
Let's initialize mu at 0.
We'll use candidate generating
standard deviation equal to 3.
Before we start sampling,
let's set the random generator seed.
So that we can reproduce
our results if we need to.
So first thing we'll run is set.seed.
And then we'll run our
Metropolis-Hastings function
using the parameters that we gave it.
If we've saved some object, and
we're curious what's inside of it,
we can use the str function,
str function in R.
And put the object in there to
find out what's in the object.
So the structure of post is a list.
Just like we had our function output.
It's a list containing 1,000
iterations of our new variable.
And it tells us our acceptance rate.
Which in our case, for
this run, was about 12%.
To help us explore
posterior distributions,
we're going to use the coda package in R.
So let's load the coda package.
This R session does not
currently have coda installed.
So first we're going to need
to install the package.
install.packages.
And we'll install Coda.
So we'll run that line.
When it installs a package,
it asks us which CRAN mirror we
want to download the package from.
We're in California, so
let's select California here.
Great, so hopefully now
library coda will work for us.
Let's run this line, perfect.
It worked, now that we've
loaded the coda library we can
use the trace plot function,
which I'll describe in just a moment.
The trace plot function requires
that we pass it an MCMC object.
Right now post is only a list.
So let's change post into an MCMC object
by typing as.mcmc, that's also a function.
Post, specifically we want to
look at the trace plot of mu.
So this is the mu vector in the post.
Our list of posts right here.
Let's run this line and see what happens.
Here's our trace plot.
So this is called a trace plot because it
shows the history of our Markov chain.
And it gives us some basic feedback
about whether the chain has reached
the stationary distribution.
It appears that our proposal step
size in this case was a little bit
too large because we had
an acceptance rate below 23%.
It was somewhere,
it was more like 12% I think in our case.
Yeah, here it is.
It was 12%.
You can see that in the trace plot.
As the sampler was moving along, for
example in these early iterations,
mu got stuck at a single value for quite
a long time, it happened again over here.
So in other words,
our Markov chain is not moving around
as much as we would like it to.
We want to increase the acceptance rate.
To change the acceptance rate,
we need to rerun the sampler with
a different candidate standard deviation.
Usually, if we increase
the variability in the distribution
that creates the candidates,
that will decrease the acceptance rate.
We want to increase the acceptance rate,
so we want a smaller standard deviation.
Let's reduce it to say, 0.05.
Let's make it really small and
see what happens.
So if we run the Metropolis-Hastings
function and reassign it to post,
it'll override our old samples,
but that's okay.
We still want to initialize mu at 0.
And we'll still run it for
1,000 iterations.
Let's run this line of code.
And let's look at
the structure of post again.
So we have 1,000 samples, but
this time the acceptance rate was 94,
almost 95%.
If we look at the trace plot for
this chain, we see the opposite behavior.
Notice that the step sizes, because
the candidate generating function have
a small variance,
the step sizes are small.
And so the chain wanders.
Here the step sizes are too small.
It's going to take the chain a long time
to explore the posterior distribution.
We can see that because the acceptance
rate for our random walk is too high.
The first candidate standard
deviation rate we tried was 3,
we over corrected by going down to 0.05,
so let's try something in between.
Let's try 0.9,
that's a compromise from the two values.
Let's run this, and
now look at our acceptance rate.
Okay, our acceptance rate is down to 0.38,
that's probably good.
We usually are looking for
an acceptance rate between 0.23 and
0.5 when we're working with a random
walk Metropolis-Hastings algorithm.
So let's look at the trace plot for this.
I'll run the trace plot command.
This trace plot looks much better.
It's exploring the posterior distribution.
It gets stuck every once in a while but
that's okay.
It looks pretty good.
Now let's see what happens
if we change our initial
value to something way
far away from the truth.
So let's try an initial
value of mu=30 We run that.
And look at the acceptance,
we still get 0.38, that's good.
And let's look at our trace plot.
We'll run this line.
Here we can see the effect of
using a crazy initial value.
We started mu way up here at 30,
and it took maybe
almost 100 iterations to find
the stationary distribution.
It was wondering for quite a long time,
and then once it hits the stationary
distribution, it bounced around
inside the stationary distribution.
But it looks like after 100 iterations,
we've succeeded.
So if we discard or
throw away the first 100 or so values,
it looks like the rest of the samples do
come from the stationary distribution,
which is the posterior
distribution we wanted.
Now let's plot the posterior
density against the prior
to see how the data updated
our belief about mu.
The first thing we'll do is get
rid of those first 200 iterations
while the chain was still exploring.
We're going to call this a new
object in our list called post.
And it'll be mu_keep.
It'll be the iterations of
mu that we want to keep.
It'll come from the mu
object in our list for
post where we get rid of.
We're going to discard
iterations 1 through,
let's just get rid of the first 100, okay.
So this says,
we're going to index the mu vector
by taking away the first 100 elements.
Let's run that line, it saves.
So that we can look at
the structure of post,
we now have mu.keep or mu_keep.
So let's plot a density estimate so
it's plot (density),
a density estimate of our posterior
draws from mu, post$mu_keep.
Let's use the same limits to
our x axis that we did before.
So that would be xlim going
from negative 1 to 3.
And let's take a look at this plot.
Let's run this.
So this is a density estimate
of the posterior distribution
based on the 10 data points.
Again, let's compare this to the data and
the prior.
First, let's draw the prior.
Again, we can reuse our old code up here,
where we drew the prior for
the density of the t distribution with
1 degree of freedom, where add=true so
that we would write it over the same plot.
Let's run this line.
So here is our prior distribution for
mu and
then based on the data,here is our
posterior distribution for mu.
Let's also add the sample mean.
So this is where the data
said mu should be.
This is where the prior said mu should be.
The posterior distribution does
look like a compromise between
the prior distribution and the data.
This results we've obtained
are encouraging but they are preliminary.
We still need to investigate a little
more formally whether our Markov chain
has actually converged to
the stationery distribution,
and we're going to explore
this in a future lesson.
Creating posterior samples using
a Metropolis-Hastings algorithm
can be time consuming and
require a lot of fine tuning
like we did with our candidate
standard deviation here.
The good news is that we can rely on
software to do most of the work for us.
So in the next couple of videos,
we're going to introduce a program that
will make posterior sampling easy.